# Design and Simulation of MEMS based Capacitive Accelerometers for Crash Detection and Airbag Deployment in Automobile

Automotive is one of the most emerging area since ages and is constantly under developments. These developments in technology and these advancements are not without responsibilities to assure that the end user is safe and satisfied. The industries’ primary concerns are improving the performance, safety, and comfort aspects which have become evident over the years with introduction of highly improved standards with every iteration. Passenger safety is a field highly researched on to ensure the survival of a passenger in a car crash. This brings us to the crash detection and air bag deployment systems in the automotive industry. At the instant of a crash, sensors start to measure severance of the impact. When the crash occurs beyond a set intensity, the sensors signal control unit to inflate the bags with gas within fractions of a
second. The reference work analyzes a capacitive accelerometer capable of identifying positive and negative levels of acceleration along three perpendicular directions. To understand this type of sensor the technological process with which modern semiconductor integrated circuits are manufactured is extensively used, thanks to which MEMS sensors are able to have dimensions in the order of nano meters.  Capacitive accelerometers are the most popular and highly researched due to several advantages like high sensitivity, low noise,low temperature sensitivity, linearity, and small footprint. When sudden displacement occurs
due to impact the comb gets shock loads or forces and that movement is observed by differential capacitance concept with dielectric as air. The design and simulations  is carried out on COMSOL, the actual theoretical calculation and the simulations are compared in order to get accurate results. The capacitance output obtained is carried to the electronic control unit which sends the impulse signal to air bag system and deployment of air bags takes place.
